[Music]
the solar system is not at all like you
think it is the earth is round mercury
is the hottest planet and the Sun is
yellow it would seem that these are all
simple undeniable facts known even to
those with no real knowledge of
astronomy
however it's time to think again does
the moon have a dark side the view that
the sun's rays shine only on one side of
the moon leaving the other side in
permanent darkness is quite widespread
this belief results from the fact that
our satellite only ever has one side
facing the earth while the other is
impossible to observe from the ground in
fact the Sun shines and warms both the
visible and invisible parts of the Moon
the truth is that the period the moon
takes to revolve on its axis coincides
with the amount of time it takes to
orbit the Earth that's why we only see
one side of it
[Music]
the moon is probably a chunk of the
earth before our planet had its cosmic
companion scientists believed that the
early Earth was all alone in its path
around the side then about four billion
years ago when the earth was still just
a baby
a gigantic space rock the size of Mars
and with a lovely named Theia
collided with our planet as a result a
huge chunk of the earth broke away and
later became our satellite the mo and
our planet never felt lonely again Oh a
happy ending
[Music]
imagine neuron star so fast they devour
everything in their path
clouds that smell of fruits and enormous
gathering of galaxies and Louie
Armstrong music in space these are some
of the unbelievable things you can find
in our cosmos the universe is enormous
fascinating and full of secrets with a
history that is billions of years old
there are still millions of things to be
discovered today we'll tell you about
unbelievable things that are currently
in space black widow mating is a
dangerous business for a male black
widow spider since there's a big chance
that the female will devour them while
mating that's why in 1988 when
scientists found a pulsar that seemed to
devour a nearby star they named it the
black widow pulsar a pulsar of this kind
is a neutron star that rotates at about
600 times per second and emits
electromagnetic radiation the black
widow pulsar orbits a brown dwarf star
and it completes the orbit in just over
nine hours so it's basically a super
fast spinning star that sounds really
cool right but keep in mind that the
black widow pulsar is slowly killing
it's brown dwarf companion the
high-energy emissions and wind of the
pulsar chip away at the dwarfs material
and will eventually eat it away entirely
calculations suggest that it will
completely evaporate the brown dwarf in
about a billion years in essence eating
the smaller star gives more energy to
the pulsar just like a black widow
spider
[Music]
do you know how many habitable planets
exist where would you run off to if
something happens to our beloved earth
what if you just wanted to take a
vacation somewhere very very far away
you might be happy to learn that eight
point eight billion earth-sized planets
have been discovered so far and that's
just in our Milky Way galaxy alone over
30 of those planets are very likely to
be habitable to human beings we only
learn that there were worlds outside our
solar system twenty-five years ago but
scientific teams have been hard at work
trying to discover habitable planets we
don't know if any of those planets hold
extraterrestrial life but we'll worry
about that when we get there Kepler 62e
in 2009 NASA launched a space
observatory called Kepler to discover
earth-sized planets orbiting other stars
1,200 light-years from Earth the Kepler
spacecraft discovered that Kepler 62
system Kepler 62e
is an exoplanet believed to be a
Waterworld here's a quick science lesson
an exoplanet is a planet that orbits a
star outside our solar system but now
back to Kepler 62e the planet is 1.6
times the size of the earth researchers
at Harvard University hypothesized that
Kepler 62e has very cloudy skies and a
warm and humid atmosphere all the way to
the polar regions
[Music]
blue sunset on Mars now on earth people
are used to a beautiful sunset that's
painted in hues of orange red and yellow
on Mars however the normally pinkish red
sky turns blue as the Sun goes down
under the horizon it's because Mars is
much farther away from the Sun than
Earth making the sunlight less intense
the fine dust in the Martian atmosphere
absorbs the blue light and gets rid of
the warmer colors that you typically see
on earth whether it's blue or yellow
both sunsets look spectacular is the
temperature of mercury higher than on
other planets
everything seems logical here mercury is
closest to the Sun therefore its surface
temperature must be higher than all the
other planets however the hottest planet
in the solar system is actually Venus
despite the fact it's 31 million 70,000
miles or 50 million kilometers further
away from the Sun than its neighbor the
average daytime temperature on Mercury
is around 662 degrees Fahrenheit or 350
degrees Celsius whereas it can reach 896
degrees Fahrenheit or 480 degrees
Celsius on Venus the reason for this is
Venus's atmosphere mercury has
practically no atmosphere to speak of
whereas Venus has a very thick one made
up almost entirely of carbon dioxide
this creates a strong greenhouse effect
trapping all the sun's heat and making
Venus incredibly hot
the Earth's magnetic field is changing
earth has a strong magnetic field thanks
to two important factors its nickel iron
core and a pretty fast axial rotation
the magnetic field is vital for Earth
because it protects the planet from the
impact of solar winds we think of our
planet's magnetic field as something
constant and stable but the truth is
that is changing researchers say that
since the 19th century the northern
magnetic pole has shifted about 685
miles
moving northwestward across the Canadian
Arctic the southern magnetic pole is
also constantly roaming scientists have
actually known about the migration of
the poles for a long time James Ross an
explorer and British naval officer
pinpointed the northern magnetic pole
for the first time in 1831 he discovered
it during his exhausting voyage to the
Arctic where his ship got trapped in the
ice forcing the crew to spend a harsh
four years there maybe that's why nobody
went back to that place until the next
century in 1904 Roald Amundsen a polar
regions Explorer from Norway reached the
North Magnetic Pole again and was
surprised to find that it had shifted 31
miles since Ross's discovery hey you
can't keep a good pull down you know
what I mean you just gotta let him
wander
[Music]
massive Sun how big do you think the Sun
actually is in comparison to earth when
you look up at the Sun it looks pretty
tiny from where we stand the radius of
the earth is three thousand nine hundred
sixty three miles at the equator the Sun
is eight hundred forty six thousand four
hundred miles across if the Sun were
like an empty ball how many planet
Earth's do you think you could fit
inside let's see if you can do some fast
math you could fit 1.3 million earths
inside the Sun the Sun accounts for
ninety-nine point eight six percent of
the mass of the solar system and do you
remember the two largest planets in our
solar system Jupiter and Saturn make up
most of the remaining point one four
percent so now you have an idea of how
big the Sun really is kepler-62f
kepler-62f is a neighbor to Kepler 62e
and they are the only to have biddable
planets in the Kepler 62 system a study
showed that kepler-62f is most likely
covered entirely in water its orbit
lasts 267 days and it is 40% larger than
Earth that might sound huge to us but
it's actually the smallest known
exoplanet in the habitable zone of
another star the leader of the NASA team
that discovered the kepler planets says
that since kepler-62f and Kepler 62e
are mostly water worlds there could be
some very advanced organisms living in
the water are you thinking aliens that's
right he explains that just as our
oceans are full of living organisms
chances are the Kepler water worlds
could also be host to life just don't
expect to find a goldfish in there
[Music]
full exploration of the planets humans
have been exploring space for over 60
years and the effort has certainly paid
off all the planets in our solar system
have now been explored even the dwarf
planets of Pluto and Ceres most of the
exploration was done by NASA's Voyager
program which began in 1977 Voyager 1
and 2 collected information on the
planets their moons and their unique
system of rings and magnetic fields
these twin spacecraft continue to send
data back to earth and Voyager 1 is
currently in interstellar space is the
Sun just a big ball of fire everyone
knows that the temperature at the Sun
surface is unimaginably high more than
10,000 290 degrees Fahrenheit or 5700
degrees Celsius so it's logical to
assume that it's simply like a giant
bonfire however this isn't an accurate
comparison what we think of as fire is
in fact energy in the form of heat and
light produced by the thermonuclear
reactions occurring in the Stars core a
thermonuclear reaction involves changing
some elements into others and it's
accompanied by the ejection of heat and
light energy this energy passes through
all the layers of the Sun to reach the
surface the photosphere which to us
seems like it's burning
[Music]
gravity isn't the same everywhere on the
planet earth despite common belief isn't
perfectly round it's more like a
squashed sphere kind of like how my head
is shaped so it's mass is irregular and
differs in various places which causes
wobbles of gravity in different areas of
the planet one of these gravitational
anomalies is found in Canada's Hudson
Bay where the gravity is much weaker
than anywhere else on the planet a 2007
study found the reason for such a
phenomenon is melted glaciers that area
was once covered with a thick layer of
ice when that ice later melted the
imprint of this glacier partially pushed
aside some of the Earth's mass in that
region is precisely this slight
deformation of the crust that can
explain the 25 to 45 percent weaker
gravity they're who they should open up
a spa sounds like a great place to lose
some weight and not have to work so hard
huh as for the rest
perhaps it's somehow connected with the
movement of magma in the planets mantle
at least that's what researchers have
predicted in science journal
black hole in the Milky Way the center
of the Milky Way holds a supermassive
black hole called Sagittarius a it is
located 2,600 light-years from Earth and
has a mass 4 million times bigger than
our Sun scientists believe that it was
unlikely that the black hole was there
by itself and they were right in 2018
a team headed by Columbia University's
astrophysics lab analyzed NASA data
collected over 12 years and discovered
that there are 300 to 500 additional
black holes close to Sagittarius a and
about 10,000 black holes in the vicinity
since black holes are invisible and the
only way of knowing they are there is to
look at how matter reacts in a
particular location it is difficult for
researchers to find them though Albert
Einstein predicted 8 years ago
scientists have only just started to
discover the ripples in space-time that
point to the existence of black holes
and in the future we can count on many
more being discovered kepler 186f let's
travel 500 light-years from Earth
they're in the Cygnus constellation
we'll reach a planet called kepler 186f
it's been called Earth's cousin and
second earth and it's about ten percent
larger than Earth here's a science tip
that will come in handy for this video
the habitable zone is the distance from
a star or range of orbits from a star
where one can have liquid water on the
surface of a planet if a planet is too
close to its parent star it will be too
hot which will cause any water to
evaporate if a planet is too far from
the parent star it will be too cold
causing the water to freeze kepler 186f
sits in the habitable zone it is
possible that kepler-186f has an
atmosphere that can keep the water on
its surface a liquid which is a
must-have for life on Earth as we know
it since kepler-186f orbits a star that
is cooler than the Sun we'd all be much
colder than on earth if we were to live
there
[Applause]
giant water reservoir in 2011
astronomers discovered an enormous water
reservoir simply floating in space
around a supermassive black hole called
a quasar floating water vapors have been
found throughout the universe but they
aren't that common this particular
reservoir holds around 140 trillion
times the amount of water in Earth's
oceans it's one of the oldest largest
and at more than 12 billion light-years
away it's the farthest known to
humankind
[Music]
is the Sun really yellow everyone who
knows a little about astronomy will tell
you that the Sun belongs to the category
of stars known as yellow doors in turn
it's logical to assume it is yellow
however like all other yellow dwarf
stars the Sun is completely white so why
do human eyes see it as yellow it's all
down to Earth's atmosphere as is well
known light which has a long wavelength
in the yellow and red part of the
spectrum passes through the atmosphere
best of all light and shorter
wavelengths in the green - violet part
of the spectrum which is what the Sun
mainly emits gets dissipated to a
greater degree by the atmosphere the
effect of this is to make the Sun appear
yellow if you were to leave the
atmosphere the Sun would take on its
true colour
[Music]
earth had and still might have one more
moon some scientists believe that our
planet used to have an additional
satellite according to their research a
smaller celestial body about 750 miles
wide orbited the earth just like a
second moon it most likely crashed into
our main satellite later on such a
collision could explain why the two
sides of the moon looks so different
from each other one being heavily
cratered in ruff scientists also don't
rule out the probability that one day
earth will get another satellite even
today there are tons of celestial bodies
that follow the planet they're mostly
temporary companions though but
scientists say that the gravitational
field of our planet occasionally
captures even quite big asteroids that
spin around the earth for several months
or about three rotations after that they
move on in their journey across the
expanses of the cosmos kind of like
hitchhikers
[Music]
orphans of the universe planets are
usually found orbiting a star but it's a
lonesome existence for a planet called
CF BDS ir 2 1 4 9 - 2 0 4 0 3 whoa
that's a mouthful so we'll call it CF
for short astronomers discovered the
rogue planet wandering alone in 2012 the
planet is just 100 light-years away from
Earth and it's a gas giant four to seven
times bigger than Jupiter rogue planets
end up alone in the cosmos when they are
kicked out or ejected from their
planetary systems cf was the closest
planet found at the time but more have
shown up since in 2016
scientists discovered another rogue
planet just 20 light-years from Earth
although the surface temperature on this
new planet is over 1,500 degrees
Fahrenheit it must be a cold and
lonesome existence for this rogue planet
Keio i 7711 0.01 a little farther away
than the kepler system at 1,700
light-years away we encounter KO I 77 11
point o1 it's been called Earth's twin
and it's only 30 percent larger than
Earth like Earth it orbits a sun-like
star the amount of light it receives
from its star is also very similar to
the amount of light earth receives from
the Sun and of course it is located in
the habitable zone do you remember what
that means it means it can hold liquid
water on its surface but researchers
from the SETI Institute say it might be
too soon to call Keo i77 11 point O one
Earth's twin as they still don't know
for sure what the atmosphere is like so
don't make any travel plans yet
[Music]
sound in space on earth sound waves make
air molecules vibrate which is why we're
able to hear sound other planets and
moons allow sound to travel through
mediums like their atmospheres and
oceans - in space though it's said that
there is no sound since there aren't any
molecules to vibrate and deliver sound
waves however not all researchers agree
on this given that space isn't just a
desolate vacuum in between the emptiness
there are clouds of gas and other stray
particles so depending on where you are
sound waves can be possible what a human
being explode in space without a
spacesuit this mistaken view is of
course the result of fairies Hollywood
movies depicting what would supposedly
happen if a person found themselves
outside a spaceship in reality our skin
is flexible enough to keep all our
internal organs in place the walls of
the blood vessels would also prevent the
blood from boiling thanks to their
elasticity moreover in the absence of
external pressure in the space
environment the temperature at which
blood boils rises to 115 degrees
Fahrenheit were 46 degrees Celsius which
is significantly higher than the
temperature of the human body instead it
is the water contained in the cells of
our skin that begins to boil in a vacuum
the result is that the human body would
expand in size in such an environment
but it definitely wouldn't explode the
main reason why a person would die is
the lack of oxygen just 15 seconds after
entering a vacuum without a spacesuit
the individual would lose consciousness
and they would be dead in two minutes
[Music]
there are moonquakes on the moon now
earthquakes or rather moon quakes on the
moon aren't something from science
fiction they actually happen they don't
occur as often as those on earth but
they are much deeper and closer to the
center of our satellite about halfway
between the surface and the core
scientists believe this phenomenon has
something to do with the gravitational
force between the Earth and the moon so
we can truthfully say to the moon hey
your quake is not our fault get it
fault alright let's move on music and
art in space when NASA was set to launch
the space probes Voyager 1 and 2 in 1977
they got an idea they wanted to transmit
information about life on Earth to
extraterrestrials if they were to find
the probe so they created the golden
record they used a 12 inch phonograph
record with a gold-plated copper disc
and loaded it with sounds and images to
portray life on Earth the golden record
includes greetings in more than 50
languages images of human anatomy
diverse sounds and nearly 90 minutes of
music the beetles didn't make it onto
the record but if aliens find it they
can delight in music by Louis Armstrong
and Chuck Berry among other artists
amazingly both probes are still
communicating with NASA and have
operated for almost 41 years they are
the spacecraft that are more distant
from earth than any other there's still
time before Voyager 1 stops working so
maybe we'll hear back from
extraterrestrials to date we haven't had
any responses that we know of
[Music]
kepler-22b kepler-22b was discovered 600
light-years away from Earth announced in
December 2011 it was the first confirmed
planet that could be in the habitable
zone it's a promising planet to search
for life kepler 22b is 2.4 times larger
than Earth and it also orbits a sun-like
star that's why it has a comfortable
temperature of 72 degrees Fahrenheit so
you can expect to feel toasty but not
too hot
NASA scientists don't yet know if the
planet has a rocky gaseous or liquid
composition but they hypothesize that it
has a cloudy atmosphere in recent years
scientists have questioned its
habitability given that it's almost
twice the size of Earth and could have a
very rocky core possibly too rocky for
humans the hottest planet out discovered
in 2017 Celt 9b is the hottest planet we
know of
next time you're complaining about the
heat on a scorching summer day just
remember that temperatures on this
planet can reach seven thousand eight
hundred degrees Fahrenheit that's
because Celt 9b orbits really close to
its star which is called Celt 9 this
thing is way hotter and bigger than our
side experts believe that the giant star
might someday evaporate the entire
planet with its intense heat kind of a
sizzling solar sauna wouldn't you say
you wouldn't okay
[Music]
is the earth further from the Sun in
winter than in summer here's one more
myth that initially seems logical if
winter is colder than summer that must
mean Earth is farther from its source of
heat right however the reality is the
opposite during the coldest part of the
year our planet is three million one
hundred and seven thousand miles were
five million kilometres closer to the
Sun than in summer how can this be it
all comes down to the fact that in
addition to orbiting the Sun the earth
also completes rotations around its own
axis that's why we have the change from
night to day the axis of the planet
which passes through the North and South
Poles is not exactly perpendicular to
its orbit and the sun's rays which fall
on it in turn for half of the year a
large portion of the sun's warmth falls
on the southern hemisphere while in the
other half it falls on the northern one
which produces a change of seasons as is
well known the summer in the southern
hemisphere is warmer than it is in the
north this is the result of the fact
that the earth comes closest to the Sun
in January that is when the southern
part of the world is experiencing summer
[Music]
our planet is covered in gold really
about 20 million tons of gol can be
found inside our very own planet and in
the seas if all this precious metal
could be extracted it would be enough to
cover the entire surface of the planet
in a 2-foot layer of gold and if we gave
everyone in equal peace each one of
Earth's inhabitants would get 9 pounds
of this treasure
but don't rush out to dig up your
backyard just yet the metal is extremely
diluted you can only get a gram of gold
for every 100 million tons of seawater
but can we at least try please
the moon was a piece of earth when the
planets in the solar system were just
starting to form earth didn't have a
moon for the longest time it took a
hundred million years for our natural
satellite to appear there are several
theories as to how the moon came into
existence but the prevailing one is the
fishin theory is that where somebody
went fishing caught the moon on a hook
and dragged it over into Earth's orbit
no I made that up the fishin theory
proposes that the moon was formed when
an object collided with earth sending
particles flying about gravity pulled
the particles together and the moon was
created it eventually settled down on to
Earth's elliptical plane which is the
path at the moon orbits
the fat one El Gordo or the fat one in
Spanish is the name of the most enormous
grouping of galaxies ever found in the
distant universe remember that we can
only see so far into the universe
because the light from distant objects
takes time to travel back to us the area
that we can see is called the observable
universe the distant universe is a
location for objects that reside on the
edges of the observable universe and
that's where El Gordo is located more
than seven billion light-years from
Earth
it contains the mass of three million
billion suns and is the product of two
galaxy clusters it is also the hottest
and brightest galaxy cluster known to us
to make matters more intense the
clusters are in the process of colliding
at millions of miles per hour gleise
581g whyis 581 G was discovered in
September 2010 and it is only 20 light
years away it's thought to be even more
earth-like than the Kepler 22b in that
it could be a better home to planets and
animals one side of the planet faces the
parent star the other side is in
constant darkness the habitable region
would likely be on the location between
shadow and light sounds pretty good
right so why aren't we heading there
well it seems that scientists aren't
sure if the planet exists the planet was
discovered by a team from the University
of California Santa Cruz with over 11
years of observational data recently the
planets habitability and later on its
entire existence has been questioned
plus it usually takes two independent
scientific studies to confirm a planet
exists perhaps in the future a second
study will redeem Gliese 581 sheet and
solidify its existence
[Music]
space trash trash isn't just a problem
in Earth's ocean cities and forests
there is a thing called space junk which
is any human-made object that's been
left in space and now serves no purpose
there's also natural debris from
meteoroids and other cosmic objects
there are currently over 500,000 pieces
of space debris orbiting the earth at
speeds high enough to cause significant
damage if they were to collide with a
spacecraft or satellite NASA does its
best to track every single object to
ensure that missions outside Earth can
reach their destination safely
[Music]
is the earth perfectly spherical this is
true yet paradoxically not true at the
same time the shape of our planet is
constantly changing due to the constant
movement of the continental plates of
course the rate at which they move is
tiny on average about 2 inches or 5
centimeters a year however this still
has an effect on the planets appearance
which is in fact far from perfectly
round
however we should point out that the
incredible image that supposedly shows
the real shape of the earth is actually
a model of the planets gravity it was
created from satellite data and doesn't
show the true shape of our home instead
it merely demonstrates the differences
in the strength of the Earth's gravity
at different points around
[Music]
earth used to be purple now dr. shield
is Sarma a microbial geneticist from the
University of Maryland hypothesizes
which is a ten-dollar scientific word
for guesses that our planet was once
purple he thinks that ancient microbes
probably didn't use chlorophyll but
other molecules to process sunlight
these molecules most likely would have
given a violet hue to the microbes
turning the entire planet purple man
Prince was born way too early he
would've loved that
[Music]
the Milky Way and Andromeda collision
the sky might appear pretty peaceful if
you look at it from Earth but the Milky
Way is headed for a massive collision
with the Andromeda galaxy 4 billion
years from now set your alarm these
galaxies will meet and neither will
survive stars will be scrambled and
constellations will be undone eventually
the two giants will merge and form an
elliptical galaxy but according to
National Geographic our Sun and earth
will survive
thank goodness any life-forms on earth
will be treated to a splendid sight as
the galaxies come together
[Music]
the biggest baddest black holes black
holes represent a very tight and dense
area of space where gravity is so strong
that not even light can get out once it
goes in black holes range from small as
large as an atom to supermassive nearly
all galaxies are thought to have
supermassive black holes that are from a
million to a billion times the mass of
our Sun in 2011 astronomers discovered
one of the biggest black holes in
existence when they found one in the NGC
38:42 galaxy but don't worry the black
hole is really far away
the NGC 3842 galaxy is located in the
Coma Cluster more than 320 million
light-years away the black hole there
has the mass of nine point seven billion
suns and is 2,500 times bigger than the
black hole at the centre of the Milky
Way wait what did you know about the
black hole in the center of the Milky
Way will tell you more about it a little
later on
[Music]
countless amounts of stars have you ever
looked up at the night sky and tried to
count all the stars yeah good luck our
galaxy the Milky Way not the candy bar
the galaxy has about 100 billion stars
what other estimates put it at over 200
billion since calculating the exact
amount is an almost impossible task even
for astronomers as for the entire
universe there are at least a billion
trillion stars that's a 1 with 21 zeroes
after it for comparison that means there
are more stars in space than there are
grains of sand on all of Earth's beaches
the tallest mountain on the planet isn't
what you think now this may seem
shocking but the title of the tallest
mountain in the world might be stolen
from Mount Everest no doubt this
enormous mountain reaches 29,029 feet
above sea level
and there's no other mountain on earth
that stands so tall but there is Mauna
Kea a mountain in Hawaii it stands proud
with its peak just about 13,000 802 feet
above sea level by the way this makes
Hawaii the second tallest island in the
whole world so what are we getting at
you ask that's much shorter than Mount
Everest after all true but the thing is
that the largest part of this over 1
million year-old mountain is underwater
and if measured from the very bottom on
the ocean floor to the peak Mauna Kea is
33,000 feet tall making it technically
the tallest mountain on the planet Aloha
[Music]
Himiko cloud when it was announced in
2009 the Himiko cloud showed up as just
a blob despite the low quality picture
scientists were moved to investigate
more about the cloud and they used a
telescope in Hawaii to gather more data
they discovered that the Himiko cloud
existed at a time when the universe was
just 800 million years old the universe
is 13.8 billion years old right now
so the Himiko cloud comes from a time
when the universe was just a baby it is
the most massive object found in the
early universe so massive that it
contains the mass of roughly 40 billion
suns
Himiko was named after a legendary and
mysterious Japanese Queen and the Himiko
cloud is also a mystery it is the first
glimpse scientists have had of the early
formation of galaxies
[Music]
raus 128 b they say that Ross 128 B is
in Earth's backyard because it's only 11
light years away
Ross 128 B was discovered in 2017
scientists were excited to see that its
surface temperatures were similar to
those of Earth so it's considered the
second closest temperature world to
earth will tell you what the first one
is in just a moment
Ross 128 B orbits a quiet star calling a
star quiet means that it doesn't blast
radiation into the planet but since
we're all so 128 B is close to its star
it receives 38% more radiation than
Earth
however some theorists claim that Ross
128 B would form high-altitude clouds to
reflect the radiation back in the space
and prevent greenhouse heating research
is still being conducted
[Music]
cosmic lighthouses among the most
spectacular looking space objects are
pulsars pulsars are a type of neutron
star they shoot out some of their
material almost at the speed of light
regular pulsars spin at a reasonable
speed between about one tenth to sixty
times per second but millisecond pulsars
can spin at an impressive 700 times a
second which is way too fast for the
human eye to even process as they spin
they emit a beam of radiation from their
axis that looks like the light from a
lighthouse astronomers can notice
pulsars when they face earth since it
looks like a light being shined on our
planet when the light shines elsewhere
the Pulsar can't be seen Earth has
exploding Lakes well on the border of
the Democratic Republic of the Congo and
Rwanda as well as in Cameroon there are
three deadly explosive lakes Neos MO
noun and kevo are crater lakes that are
located over volcanic earth this means
that magma lurking below the surface
emits carbon dioxide into the waters of
the lake this carbon dioxide builds up
in a thick layer at the bottom of the
lakes until pressure gives way and it's
released in an explosion now it doesn't
happen often but if anyone is unlucky
enough to be passing by at that moment
they'll be asphyxiated with the gas oh
my
so it's really a farting Lake that can
kill you if you get too close hey I have
a brother-in-law kind of like that
[Music]
bling bling Saturn has always stood out
with its characteristic rings scientists
believe that only planets could have
rings until they encountered the rings
of sharra glow in 2013 just past Saturn
they found a tiny asteroid with two
rings of its own chariklo is considered
a centaur no not the mythological
creature the named centaur reflects the
mysterious nature of the small celestial
bodies located between Jupiter and
Neptune that have the characteristics of
asteroids or comets scientists continue
to study shark lo but for now it remains
a mystery as the purpose of the tiny
rings remains uncertain prxima B
Proxima B is 1.3 times the size of the
earth it is the closest temperature
world tour which means that if you were
to travel there you'd experience almost
the same temperatures as on earth
that sounds pretty comfortable right
plus it is only four light years away
Proxima B orbits of the Proxima Centauri
star which is the closest star to our
Sun Proxima B is rocky and warm enough
to host liquid water there is one tiny
problem though Proxima Centauri blasts a
lot of powerful flares which means that
Proxima B could get blasted with enough
radiation to prevent living there
earth is home to the most powerful
volcanic eruption ever the most powerful
eruption ever recorded happen in April
1815 the heart of the explosion was
Mount Tambora in Indonesia this eruption
was ranked a 7 or super colossal on the
volcanic explosivity index this ranking
is similar to the Richter scale for
earthquakes and goes from 1 to 8
the 1815 explosion was so loud that even
people on Sumatra island could hear it
and that's about 1,200 miles away over
71 thousand people died in this
catastrophic disaster and dark clouds of
wet ash covered distant Islands scary
raspberry cloud 390 light-years from the
Milky Way galaxy we find an enormous
dust cloud called Sagittarius b2 and
when we say enormous we mean it it is
over 100 light-years wide but why do we
have such an interest in this cloud
because it is known to taste of
raspberries and it also smells like rum
yes you heard us right Sagittarius b2
contains vast amount of a chemical
compound called ethyl formate when you
mix ethanol with formic acid you get
ethyl formate
which is an ester esters are known as
smell molecules and they provide strong
floral fruit and wine smells and that
accounts for the raspberry taste but
what about that rum smell well the first
ethanol ever found in space was located
here in 1975 as such this enormous cloud
contains billions of litres of alcohol
but we can't just head out there to have
an endless source of booze the ethanol
is mixed with a dozen other compounds
including propyl cyanide which can be
lethal to humans
Trappist 1e 40 light-years away we
encounter the Trappist system nasa
announced this major discovery in 2017
the Trappist one system holds seven
planets all earth sized and all
habitable surrounding a single star
sounds like our solar system right
NASA's Hubble telescope found that the
planets Trappist 1b and Trappist 1c were
unlikely to hold hydrogen dominated
atmospheres which makes it likely that
the planets could hold on to water in
February 2018
studies showed that the planets are
mostly made of rock tucked in the middle
Trappist 1e could be the most habitable
of the seven planets if you were to
stand on Trappist 1e you could see the
other six planets closely enough that
they'd look like moons Trappist one is
the most similar planet system to our
own and in 2018 researchers are still
hard at work trying to determine the
planet's atmosphere scientists have
identified a good selection of planets
but there's still a lot of research to
be done about the planets atmospheres so
don't pack your bags just yet traveling
to any of the planets would also be a
long journey taking us thousands of
years we'd need to have some really
advanced life support gear to be able to
survive the journey but we can dream
right do you dream about visiting any of
these planets what do you think life
would be like tell us in the comments
section and don't forget to click the
subscribe button to stay on the bright
side of life
the biggest volcano Mars houses the
biggest volcano in the solar system well
everything seems to be calm on Mars
nowadays in the past some sort of force
caused enormous volcanoes to form and
erupt one of these volcanoes is Olympus
Mons it's 16 miles tall which is the
height of 3 Mount Everest sand 374 miles
across making it about the size of
Arizona the volcano Groot is such a
gargantuan size because of the weak
gravity on Mars and the lack of tectonic
plate movement
[Music]
the densest objects in specs
neutron stars are the size of a small
city yet their mass is about 1.4 times
that of the Sun they're formed when
massive stars die and their cores
collapse in on themselves the core
continues to press in on itself until
all the electrons are essentially
crushed together leaving only neutrons
this makes neutron stars one of the
densest objects in the universe in fact
a single teaspoon of neutron star
material would weigh a billion tons of
course getting this sample and returning
it back to earth might be a difficult
task
since the gravity on a neutron star is 2
billion times stronger than the gravity
on our planet hey give the job to FedEx
or UPS and let them worry about delivery
so which of these facts surprised you
the most tell us in the comments below
don't forget to give this video a like
share it with your friends and click
subscribe to stay on the bright side of
life
[Music]
the solar system is not at all like you
think it is the earth is round mercury
is the hottest planet and the Sun is
yellow it would seem that these are all
simple undeniable facts known even to
those with no real knowledge of
astronomy
however it's time to think again does
the moon have a dark side the view that
the sun's rays shine only on one side of
the moon leaving the other side in
permanent darkness is quite widespread
this belief results from the fact that
our satellite only ever has one side
facing the earth while the other is
impossible to observe from the ground in
fact the Sun shines and warms both the
visible and invisible parts of the Moon
the truth is that the period the moon
takes to revolve on its axis coincides
with the amount of time it takes to
orbit the Earth that's why we only see
one side of it
[Music]
the moon is probably a chunk of the
earth before our planet had its cosmic
companion scientists believe that the
early Earth was all alone in its path
around the side then about 4 billion
years ago when the earth was still just
a baby
a gigantic space rock the size of Mars
and with the lovely named Theia collided
with our planet as a result a huge chunk
of the earth broke away and later became
our satellite the mo and our planet
never felt lonely again Oh a happy
ending
[Music]
imagine neuron star so fast they devour
everything in their path
clouds that smell of fruits and enormous
gathering of galaxies and Louie
Armstrong music in space these are some
of the unbelievable things you can find
in our cosmos the universe is enormous
fascinating and full of secrets with a
history that is billions of years old
there are still millions of things to be
discovered today we'll tell you about
unbelievable things that are currently
in space black widow mating is a
dangerous business for a male black
widow spider since there's a big chance
that the female will devour them while
mating that's why in 1988 when
scientists found a pulsar that seemed to
devour a nearby star they named it the
black widow pulsar a pulsar of this kind
is a neutron star that rotates at about
600 times per second and emits
electromagnetic radiation the black
widow pulsar orbits a brown dwarf star
and it completes the orbit in just over
nine hours so it's basically a super
fast spinning star that sounds really
cool right but keep in mind that the
black widow pulsar is slowly killing
it's brown dwarf companion the
high-energy emissions and wind of the
pulsar chip away at the dwarfs material
and will eventually eat it away entirely
calculations suggest that it will
completely evaporate the brown dwarf in
about a billion years in essence eating
the smaller star gives more energy to
the pulsar just like a black widow
spider
[Music]
do you know how many habitable planets
exist where would you run off to if
something happened to our beloved earth
what if you just wanted to take a
vacation somewhere very very far away
you might be happy to learn that eight
point eight billion earth-sized planets
have been discovered so far and that's
just in our Milky Way galaxy alone over
30 of those planets are very likely to
be habitable to human beings we only
learn that there were worlds outside our
solar system twenty-five years ago but
scientific teams have been hard at work
trying to discover habitable planets we
don't know if any of those planets hold
extraterrestrial life but we'll worry
about that when we get there Kepler 62e
in 2009 NASA launched a space
observatory called Kepler to discover
earth-sized planets orbiting other stars
1,200 light-years from Earth the Kepler
spacecraft discovered the Kepler 62
system Kepler 62e is an exoplanet
believed to be a Waterworld
here's a quick science lesson an
exoplanet is a planet that orbits a star
outside our solar system but now back to
Kepler 62e the planet is 1.6 times the
size of the earth researchers at Harvard
University hypothesized that Kepler 62e
has very cloudy skies and a warm and
humid atmosphere all the way to the
polar regions
[Music]
blue sunset on Mars now on earth people
are used to a beautiful sunset that's
painted in hues of orange red and yellow
on Mars however the normally pinkish red
sky turns blue as the Sun goes down
under the horizon it's because Mars is
much farther away from the Sun than
Earth making the sunlight less intense
the fine dust in the Martian atmosphere
absorbs the blue light and gets rid of
the warmer colors that you typically see
on earth whether it's blue or yellow
both sunsets look spectacular is the
temperature of mercury higher than on
other planets
everything seems logical here mercury is
closest to the Sun therefore its surface
temperature must be higher than all the
other planets however the hottest planet
in the solar system is actually Venus
despite the fact it's 31 million 70,000
miles or 50 million kilometers further
away from the Sun than its neighbor the
average daytime temperature on Mercury
is around 662 degrees Fahrenheit or 350
degrees Celsius whereas it can reach 896
degrees Fahrenheit or 480 degrees
Celsius on Venus the reason for this is
Venus's atmosphere mercury has
practically no atmosphere to speak of
whereas Venus has a very thick one made
up almost entirely of carbon dioxide
this creates a strong greenhouse effect
trapping all the sun's heat and making
Venus incredibly hot
the Earth's magnetic field is changing
earth has a strong magnetic field thanks
to two important factors its nickel iron
core and a pretty fast axial rotation
the magnetic field is vital for Earth
because it protects the planet from the
impact of solar winds we think of our
planet's magnetic field as something
constant and stable but the truth is
that is changing researchers say that
since the 19th century the northern
magnetic pole has shifted about 685
miles
moving northwestward across the Canadian
Arctic the southern magnetic pole is
also constantly roaming scientists have
actually known about the migration of
the poles for a long time James Ross an
explorer and British naval officer
pinpointed the northern magnetic pole
for the first time in 1831 he discovered
it during his exhausting voyage to the
Arctic where his ship got trapped in the
ice forcing the crew to spend a harsh
four years there maybe that's why nobody
went back to that place until the next
century in 1904 Roald Amundsen a polar
regions Explorer from Norway reached the
North Magnetic Pole again and was
surprised to find that it had shifted 31
miles since Ross's discovery hey you
can't keep a good pull down you know
what I mean you just gotta let him
wander
[Music]
massive Sun how big do you think the Sun
actually is in comparison to earth when
you look up at the Sun it looks pretty
tiny from where we stand the radius of
the earth is three thousand nine hundred
sixty three miles at the equator the Sun
is eight hundred forty six thousand four
hundred miles across if the Sun were
like an empty ball
how many planet Earth's do you think you
could fit inside let's see if you can do
some fast math you could fit 1.3 million
earths inside the Sun the Sun accounts
for ninety-nine point eight six percent
of the mass of the solar system and do
you remember the two largest planets in
our solar system Jupiter and Saturn make
up most of the remaining point one four
percent so now you have an idea of how
big the Sun really is
[Music]
kepler-62f kepler-62f is a neighbor to
kepler-62e and they are the only to have
biddable planets in the Kepler 62 system
a study showed that kepler-62f is most
likely covered entirely in water its
orbit lasts 267 days and it is 40%
larger than Earth
that might sound huge to us but it's
actually the smallest known exoplanet in
the habitable zone of another star the
leader of the NASA team that discovered
the kepler planets says that since
kepler-62f and Kepler 62e are mostly
water worlds there could be some very
advanced organisms living in the water
are you thinking aliens that's right he
explains that just as our oceans are
full of living organisms chances are
that Kepler water worlds could also be
host to life just don't expect to find a
goldfish in there full exploration of
the planets humans have been exploring
space for over 60 years and the effort
has certainly paid off all the planets
in our solar system have now been
explored even the dwarf planets of Pluto
and Ceres most of the exploration was
done by NASA's Voyager program which
began in 1977 Voyager 1 and 2 collected
information on the planets their moons
and their unique system of rings and
magnetic fields these twin spacecraft
continue to send data back to earth and
Voyager 1 is currently in interstellar
space
is the Sun just a big ball of fire
everyone knows that the temperature at
the Sun surface is unimaginably high
more than ten thousand two hundred
ninety degrees Fahrenheit or five
thousand seven hundred degrees Celsius
so it's logical to assume that it's
simply like a giant bonfire however this
isn't an accurate comparison what we
think of as fire is in fact energy in
the form of heat and light produced by
the thermonuclear reactions occurring in
the Stars core a thermonuclear reaction
involves changing some elements into
others and it's accompanied by the
ejection of heat and light energy this
energy passes through all the layers of
the Sun to reach the surface the
photosphere which to us seems like it's
burning gravity isn't the same
everywhere on the planet Earth despite
common belief isn't perfectly round it's
more like a squashed sphere kind of like
how my head is shaped so it's mass is
irregular and differs in various places
which causes wobbles of gravity in
different areas of the planet one of
these gravitational anomalies is found
in Canada's Hudson Bay where the gravity
is much weaker than anywhere else on the
planet a 2007 study found the reason for
such a phenomenon is melted glaciers
that area was once covered with a thick
layer of ice when that ice later melted
the imprint of this glacier partially
pushed aside some of the Earth's mass in
that region is precisely this slight
deformation of the crust that can
explain the 25 to 45 percent weaker
gravity their who they should open up a
spa sounds like a great place to lose
some weight and not have to work so hard
huh as for the rest
perhaps it's somehow connected with the
movement of magma in the planets mantle
at least that's what researchers have
predicted in science journal
black hole in the Milky Way the center
of the Milky Way holds a supermassive
black hole called Sagittarius a it is
located 2,600 light-years from Earth and
has a mass 4 million times bigger than
our Sun scientists believe that it was
unlikely that the black hole was there
by itself and they were right in 2018
a team headed by Columbia University's
astrophysics lab analyzed NASA data
collected over 12 years and discovered
that there are 300 to 500 additional
black holes close to Sagittarius a and
about 10,000 black holes in the vicinity
since black holes are invisible and the
only way of knowing they are there is to
look at how matter reacts in a
particular location it is difficult for
researchers to find them though Albert
Einstein predicted 8 years ago
scientists have only just started to
discover the ripples in space-time that
point to the existence of black holes
and in the future we can count on many
more being discovered kepler 186f let's
travel 500 light-years from Earth
they're in the Cygnus constellation
we'll reach a planet called kepler 186f
it's been called Earth's cousin and
second earth and it's about ten percent
larger than Earth here's a science tip
that will come in handy for this video
the habitable zone is the distance from
a star or range of orbits from a star
where one can have liquid water on the
surface of a planet if a planet is too
close to its parent star it will be too
hot which will cause any water to
evaporate if a planet is too far from
the parent star it will be too cold
causing the water to freeze kepler 186f
sits in the habitable zone it is
possible that kepler-186f has an
atmosphere that can keep the water on
its surface a liquid which is a
must-have for life on Earth as we know
since kepler-186f orbits a star that is
cooler than the Sun we'd all be much
colder than on earth
if we were to live there
giant water reservoir in 2011
astronomers discovered an enormous water
reservoir simply floating in space
around a supermassive black hole called
a quasar floating water vapors have been
found throughout the universe but they
aren't that common this particular
reservoir holds around 140 trillion
times the amount of water in Earth's
oceans it's one of the oldest largest
and at more than 12 billion light-years
away it's the farthest known to
humankind is the Sun really yellow
everyone who knows a little about
astronomy will tell you that the Sun
belongs to the category of stars known
as yellow doors in turn it's logical to
assume it is yellow however like all
other yellow Dorf stars the Sun is
completely white so why do human eyes
see it as yellow it's all down to
Earth's atmosphere as is well known
light which has a long wavelength in the
yellow and red part of the spectrum
passes through the atmosphere best of
all light and shorter wavelengths in the
green - violet part of the spectrum
which is what the Sun mainly emits gets
dissipated to a greater degree by the
atmosphere the effect of this is to make
the Sun appear yellow if you were to
leave the atmosphere the Sun would take
on its true color
[Music]
earth had and still might have one more
moon some scientists believe that our
planet used to have an additional
satellite according to their research a
smaller celestial body about 750 miles
wide orbited the earth just like a
second moon it most likely crashed into
our main satellite later on such a
collision could explain why the two
sides of the moon looks so different
from each other one being heavily
cratered in ruff scientists also don't
rule out the probability that one day
earth will get another satellite even
today there are tons of celestial bodies
that follow the planet they're mostly
temporary companions though but
scientists say that the gravitational
field of our planet
occasionally captures even quite big
asteroids that spin around the earth for
several months or about three rotations
after that they move on in their journey
across the expanses of the cosmos kind
of like hitchhikers
[Music]
orphans of the universe planets are
usually found orbiting a star but it's a
lonesome existence for a planet called
CF BDS ir 2 1 49 - 2 0 4 0 3 whoa that's
a mouthful so we'll call it CF for short
astronomers discovered the rogue planet
wandering alone in 2012 the planet is
just 100 light-years away from Earth and
it's a gas giant four to seven times
bigger than Jupiter
rogue planets end up alone in the cosmos
when they are kicked out or ejected from
their planetary systems cf was the
closest planet found at the time but
more have shown up since in 2016
scientists discovered another rogue
planet just 20 light-years from Earth
although the surface temperature on this
new planet is over 1,500 degrees
Fahrenheit it must be a cold and
lonesome existence for this rogue planet
Keio i 7711 point though one a little
farther away than the kepler system at
1,700 light-years away we encounter KO I
77 11 point o1 it's been called Earth's
twin and it's only 30 percent larger
than Earth like Earth it orbits a
sun-like star the amount of light it
receives from its star is also very
similar to the amount of light earth
receives from the Sun and of course it
is located in the habitable zone do you
remember what that means it means it can
hold liquid water on its surface but
researchers from the SETI Institute say
it might be too soon to call Keo i77
eleven point o one Earth's twin as they
still don't know for sure what the
atmosphere is like so don't make any
travel plans yet
[Music]
sound in space on earth sound waves make
air molecules vibrate which is why we're
able to hear sound other planets and
moons allow sound to travel through
mediums like their atmospheres and
oceans - in space though it's said that
there is no sound since there aren't any
molecules to vibrate and deliver sound
waves however not all researchers agree
on this given that space isn't just a
desolate vacuum in between the emptiness
there are clouds of gas and other stray
particles so depending on where you are
sound waves can be possible what a human
being explode in space without a
spacesuit this mistaken view is of
course the result of fairies Hollywood
movies depicting what would supposedly
happen if a person found themselves
outside a spaceship in reality our skin
is flexible enough to keep all our
internal organs in place the walls of
the blood vessels would also prevent the
blood from boiling thanks to their
elasticity moreover in the absence of
external pressure in the space
environment the temperature at which
blood boils rises to 115 degrees
Fahrenheit were 46 degrees Celsius which
is significantly higher than the
temperature of the human body instead it
is the water contained in the cells of
our skin that begins to boil in a vacuum
the result is that the human body would
expand in size in such an environment
but it definitely wouldn't explode the
main reason why a person would die is
the lack of oxygen just 15 seconds after
entering a vacuum without a spacesuit
the individual would lose consciousness
and they would be dead in two minutes
[Music]
there are moonquakes on the moon now
earthquakes or rather moon quakes on the
moon aren't something from science
fiction they actually happen they don't
occur as often as those on earth but
they are much deeper and closer to the
center of our satellite about halfway
between the surface and the core
scientists believe this phenomenon has
something to do with the gravitational
force between the Earth and the moon
so we can truthfully say to the moon hey
your quake is not our fault
get it fault all right let's move on
music and art in space when NASA was set
to launch the space probes Voyager 1 and
2 in 1977 they got an idea
they wanted to transmit information
about life on Earth to extraterrestrials
if they were to find the probe so they
created the golden record they used a 12
inch phonograph record with a
gold-plated copper disc and loaded it
with sounds and images to portray life
on Earth the golden record includes
greetings in more than 50 languages
images of human anatomy diverse sounds
and nearly 90 minutes of music the
Beatles didn't make it onto the record
but if aliens find it they can delight
in music by Louis Armstrong and Chuck
Berry among other artists amazingly both
probes are still communicating with NASA
and have operated for almost 41 years
they are the spacecraft that are more
distant from Earth than any other
there's still time before Voyager 1
stops working so maybe we'll hear back
from extraterrestrials to date we
haven't had any responses that we know
of
[Music]
kepler-22b kepler-22b was discovered 600
light-years away from Earth announced in
December 2011 it was the first confirmed
planet that could be in the habitable
zone it's a promising planet to search
for life kepler 22b is 2.4 times larger
than Earth and it also orbits a sun-like
star that's why it has a comfortable
temperature of 72 degrees Fahrenheit so
you can expect to feel toasty but not
too hot
NASA scientists don't yet know if the
planet has a rocky gaseous or liquid
composition but they hypothesize that it
has a cloudy atmosphere in recent years
scientists have questioned its
habitability given that it's almost
twice the size of Earth and could have a
very rocky core possibly too rocky for
humans the hottest planet out discovered
in 2017 Celt 9b is the hottest planet we
know of
next time you're complaining about the
heat on a scorching summer day just
remember that temperatures on this
planet can reach seven thousand eight
hundred degrees Fahrenheit
that's because Celt 9b orbits really
close to its star which is called Celt 9
this thing is way hotter and bigger than
our side experts believe that the giant
star might someday evaporate the entire
planet with its intense heat kind of a
sizzling solar sauna wouldn't you say
you wouldn't okay
is the earth further from the Sun in
winter than in summer here's one more
myth that initially seems logical if
winter is colder than summer that must
mean earth is farther from its source of
heat right however the reality is the
opposite during the coldest part of the
year our planet is three million one
hundred and seven thousand miles were
five million kilometres closer to the
Sun than in summer how can this be it
all comes down to the fact that in
addition to orbiting the Sun the earth
also completes rotations around its own
axis that's why we have the change from
night to day the axis of the planet
which passes through the North and South
Poles is not exactly perpendicular to
its orbit and the sun's rays which fall
on it in turn for half of the year a
large portion of the sun's warmth falls
on the southern hemisphere while in the
other half it falls on the northern one
which produces a change of seasons as is
well known the summer in the southern
hemisphere is warmer than it is in the
north this is the result of the fact
that the earth comes closest to the Sun
in January that is when the southern
part of the world is experiencing summer
[Music]
our planet is covered in gold really
about 20 million tons of gol can be
found inside our very own planet and in
the seas if all this precious metal
could be extracted it would be enough to
cover the entire surface of the planet
in a 2-foot layer of gold and if we gave
everyone in equal peace each one of
Earth's inhabitants would get 9 pounds
of this treasure
but don't rush out to dig up your
backyard just yet the metal is extremely
diluted you can only get a gram of gold
for every 100 million tons of seawater
but can we at least try please
the moon was a piece of earth when the
planets in the solar system were just
starting to form earth didn't have a
moon for the longest time it took a
hundred million years for our natural
satellite to appear there are several
theories as to how the moon came into
existence but the prevailing one is the
fishin theory is that where somebody
went fishing caught the moon on a hook
and dragged it over into Earth's orbit
no I made that up the fishin theory
proposes that the moon was formed when
an object collided with earth sending
particles flying about gravity pulled
the particles together and the moon was
created it eventually settled down on to
Earth's elliptical plane which is the
path at the moon orbits
the fat one El Gordo or the fat one in
Spanish is the name of the most enormous
grouping of galaxies ever found in the
distant universe remember that we can
only see so far into the universe
because the light from distant objects
takes time to travel back to us the area
that we can see is called the observable
universe the distant universe is a
location for objects that reside on the
edges of the observable universe and
that's where El Gordo is located more
than seven billion light-years from
Earth
it contains the mass of three million
billion suns and is the product of two
galaxy clusters it is also the hottest
and brightest galaxy cluster known to us
to make matters more intense the
clusters are in the process of colliding
at millions of miles per hour gleise
581g gleise 581g was discovered in
September 2010 and it is only 20 light
years away it's thought to be even more
earth-like than the Kepler 22b and that
it could be a better home to planets and
animals one side of the planet faces the
parent star the other side is in
constant darkness the habitable region
would likely be on the location between
shadow and light sounds pretty good
right so why aren't we heading there
well it seems that scientists aren't
sure if the planet exists the planet was
discovered by a team from the University
of California Santa Cruz with over 11
years of observational data recently the
planets habitability and later on its
entire existence has been questioned
plus it usually takes two independent
scientific studies to confirm a planet
exists perhaps in the future a second
study will redeem Gliese 581 sheet and
solidify its existence
[Music]
space trash trash isn't just a problem
in Earth's ocean cities and forests
there is a thing called space junk which
is any human-made object that's been
left in space and now serves no purpose
there's also natural debris from
meteoroids and other cosmic objects
there are currently over 500,000 pieces
of space debris orbiting the earth at
speeds high enough to cause significant
damage if they were to collide with a
spacecraft or satellite nasa does its
best to track every single object to
ensure that missions outside earth can
reach their destination safely
[Music]
is the earth perfectly spherical this is
true yet paradoxically not true at the
same time the shape of our planet is
constantly changing due to the constant
movement of the continental plates of
course the rate at which they move is
tiny on average about 2 inches or 5
centimeters a year however this still
has an effect on the planets appearance
which is in fact far from perfectly
round
however we should point out that the
incredible image that supposedly shows
the real shape of the earth is actually
a model of the planets gravity it was
created from satellite data and doesn't
show the true shape of our home instead
it merely demonstrates the differences
in the strength of the Earth's gravity
at different points around
[Music]
earth used to be purple now dr. shield
asama a microbial geneticist from the
University of Maryland hypothesizes
which is a ten-dollar scientific word
four guesses that our planet was once
purple he thinks that ancient microbes
probably didn't use chlorophyll but
other molecules to process sunlight
these molecules most likely would have
given a violet hue to the microbes
turning the entire planet purple man
prince was born way too early he woulda
loved that
[Music]
the Milky Way and Andromeda collision
the sky might appear pretty peaceful if
you look at it from Earth but the Milky
Way is headed for a massive collision
with the Andromeda galaxy 4 billion
years from now set your alarm these
galaxies will meet and neither will
survive stars will be scrambled and
constellations will be undone eventually
the two giants will merge and form an
elliptical galaxy but according to
National Geographic our Sun and earth
will survive
thank goodness any life-forms on earth
will be treated to a splendid sight as
the galaxies come together
[Music]
the biggest baddest black holes black
holes represent a very tight and dense
area of space where gravity is so strong
that not even light can get out once it
goes in black holes range from small as
large as an atom to supermassive nearly
all galaxies are thought to have
supermassive black holes that are from a
million to a billion times the mass of
our Sun in 2011 astronomers discovered
one of the biggest black holes in
existence when they found one in the NGC
38:42 galaxy but don't worry the black
hole is really far away
the NGC 3842 galaxy is located in the
Coma Cluster more than 320 million
light-years away the black hole there
has the mass of nine point seven billion
suns and is 2,500 times bigger than the
black hole at the centre of the Milky
Way wait what did you know about the
black hole in the center of the Milky
Way will tell you more about it a little
later on
[Music]
countless amounts of stars have you ever
looked up at the night sky and tried to
count all the stars yeah good luck our
galaxy the Milky Way not the candy bar
the galaxy has about 100 billion stars
what other estimates put it at over 200
billion since calculating the exact
amount is an almost impossible task even
for astronomers as for the entire
universe there are at least a billion
trillion stars that's a 1 with 21 zeroes
after it for comparison that means there
are more stars in space than there are
grains of sand on all of Earth's beaches
the tallest mountain on the planet isn't
what you think now this may seem
shocking but the title of the tallest
mountain in the world might be stolen
from Mount Everest no doubt this
enormous mountain reaches 29,029 feet
above sea level
and there's no other mountain on earth
that stands so tall but there is Mauna
Kea a mountain in Hawaii it stands proud
with its peak just about 13,000 802 feet
above sea level by the way this makes
Hawaii the second tallest island in the
whole world so what are we getting at
you ask that's much shorter than Mount
Everest after all true but the thing is
that the largest part of this over 1
million year-old mountain is underwater
and if measured from the very bottom on
the ocean floor to the peak Mauna Kea is
33,000 feet tall making it technically
the tallest mountain on the planet Aloha
[Music]
Himiko cloud when it was announced in
2009 the Himiko cloud showed up as just
a blob despite the low quality picture
scientists were moved to investigate
more about the cloud and they used a
telescope in Hawaii to gather more data
they discovered that the Himiko cloud
existed at a time when the universe was
just 800 million years old the universe
is 13.8 billion years old right now
so the Himiko cloud comes from a time
when the universe was just a baby it is
the most massive object found in the
early universe so massive that it
contains the mass of roughly 40 billion
suns
Himiko was named after a legendary and
mysterious Japanese Queen and the Himiko
cloud is also a mystery it is the first
glimpse scientists have had of the early
formation of galaxies
[Music]
raus 128 b they say that Ross 128 B is
in Earth's backyard because it's only 11
light years away
Ross 128 B was discovered in 2017
scientists were excited to see that its
surface temperatures were similar to
those of Earth so it's considered the
second closest temperature world to
earth will tell you what the first one
is in just a moment
Ross 128 B orbits a quiet star calling a
star quiet means that it doesn't blast
radiation into the planet but since
we're all so 128 B is close to its star
it receives 38% more radiation than
Earth
however some theorists claim that Ross
128 B would form high-altitude clouds to
reflect the radiation back into space
and prevent greenhouse heating research
is still being conducted
[Music]
cosmic lighthouses among the most
spectacular looking space objects are
pulsars pulsars are a type of neutron
star they shoot out some of their
material almost at the speed of light
regular pulsars spin at a reasonable
speed between about one tenth to sixty
times per second but millisecond pulsars
can spin at an impressive 700 times a
second which is way too fast for the
human eye to even process as they spin
they emit a beam of radiation from their
axis that looks like the light from a
lighthouse astronomers can notice
pulsars when they face earth since it
looks like a light being shined on our
planet when the light shines elsewhere
the Pulsar can't be seen Earth has
exploding Lakes well on the border of
the Democratic Republic of the Congo and
Rwanda as well as in Cameroon there are
three deadly explosive lakes Neos mow
noun and Kiva are crater lakes that are
located over volcanic earth this means
that magma lurking below the surface
emits carbon dioxide into the waters of
the lake this carbon dioxide builds up
in a thick layer at the bottom of the
lakes until pressure gives way and it's
released in an explosion now it doesn't
happen often but if anyone is unlucky
enough to be passing by at that moment
they'll be asphyxiated with the gas oh
my
so it's really a farting Lake that can
kill you if you get too close hey I have
a brother-in-law kind of like that
[Music]
bling bling Saturn has always stood out
with his characteristic rings scientists
believe that only planets could have
rings until they encountered the rings
of sharra glow in 2013 just past Saturn
they found a tiny asteroid with two
rings of its own chariklo is considered
a centaur no not the mythological
creature the named centaur reflects the
mysterious nature of the small celestial
bodies located between Jupiter and
Neptune that have the characteristics of
asteroids or comets scientists continue
to study shark lo but for now it remains
a mystery as the purpose of the tiny
rings remains uncertain prxima B
Proxima B is 1.3 times the size of the
earth it is the closest temperature
world tour which means that if you were
to travel there you'd experience almost
the same temperatures as on earth
that sounds pretty comfortable right
plus it is only 4 light years away
Proxima B orbits of the Proxima Centauri
star which is the closest star to our
Sun Proxima B is rocky and warm enough
to host liquid water there is one tiny
problem though Proxima Centauri blasts a
lot of powerful flares which means that
Proxima B could get blasted with enough
radiation to prevent living there
earth is home to the most powerful
volcanic eruption ever the most powerful
eruption ever recorded happen in April
1815 the heart of the explosion was
Mount Tambora in Indonesia this eruption
was ranked a 7 or super colossal on the
volcanic explosivity index this ranking
is similar to the Richter scale for
earthquakes and goes from 1 to 8
the 1815 explosion was so loud that even
people on Sumatra island could hear it
and that's about 1,200 miles away over
71 thousand people died in this
catastrophic disaster and dark clouds of
wet ash covered distant Islands scary
raspberry Klout 390 light-years from the
Milky Way galaxy we find an enormous
dust cloud called Sagittarius b2 and
when we say enormous we mean it it is
over 100 light-years wide but why do we
have such an interest in this cloud
because it is known to taste of
raspberries and it also smells like rum
yes you heard us right Sagittarius b2
contains vast amount of a chemical
compound called ethyl formate when you
mix ethanol with formic acid you get
ethyl formate which is an ester esters
are known as smell molecules and they
provide strong floral fruit and wine
smells and that accounts for the
raspberry taste but what about that rum
smell well the first ethanol ever found
in space was located here in 1975 as
such this enormous cloud contains
billions of litres of alcohol but we
can't just head out there to have an
endless source of booze the ethanol is
mixed with a dozen other compounds
including propyl cyanide which can be
lethal to humans
Trappist 1e 40 light-years away we
encounter the Trappist system nasa
announced this major discovery in 2017
the Trappist one system holds seven
planets all earth sized and all
habitable surrounding a single star
sounds like our solar system right
NASA's Hubble telescope found that the
planets Trappist 1b and Trappist 1c were
unlikely to hold hydrogen dominated
atmospheres which makes it likely that
the planets could hold on to water in
February 2018 studies showed that the
planets are mostly made of rock tucked
in the middle Trappist 1e could be the
most habitable of the seven planets if
you were to stand on Trappist 1e you
could see the other six planets closely
enough that they'd look like moons
Trappist one is the most similar planet
system to our own and in 2018
researchers are still hard at work
trying to determine the planet's
atmosphere scientists have identified a
good selection of planets but there's
still a lot of research to be done about
the planets atmospheres so don't pack
your bags just yet traveling to any of
the planets would also be a long journey
taking us thousands of years we need to
have some really advanced life support
gear to be able to survive the journey
but we can dream right do you dream
about visiting any of these planets what
do you think life would be like tell us
in the comments section and don't forget
to click the subscribe button to stay on
the bright side of life
the biggest volcano Mars houses the
biggest volcano in the solar system well
everything seems to be calm on Mars
nowadays in the past some sort of force
caused enormous volcanoes to form
interrupt one of these volcanoes is
Olympus Mons it's 16 miles tall which is
the height of 3 Mount Everest sand 374
miles across making it about the size of
Arizona the volcano Groot is such a
gargantuan size because of the weak
gravity on Mars and the lack of tectonic
plate movement
[Music]
the densest objects in specs
neutron stars are the size of a small
city yet their mass is about 1.4 times
that of the Sun they're formed when
massive stars die and their cores
collapse in on themselves the core
continues to press in on itself until
all the electrons are essentially
crushed together leaving only neutrons
this makes neutron stars one of the
densest objects in the universe in fact
a single teaspoon of neutron star
material would weigh a billion tons of
course getting this sample and returning
it back to earth might be a difficult
task since the gravity on a neutron star
is 2 billion times stronger than the
gravity on our planet hey give the job
to FedEx or UPS and let them worry about
delivery so which of these facts
surprised you the most tell us in the
comments below don't forget to give this
video a like share it with your friends
and click subscribe to stay on the
bright side of life
[Music]